# JSON and JSON Schema

With this, we are starting the technical part.

## JSON

JSON is the most basic yet crucial point to master.
You should be "fluent" in it.
There are a lot videos online so feel free to find other sources.
Make sure to open [JSON Lint](https://jsonlint.com/) in this tutorial.

This step by step tutorial is recommended to understand JSON: <https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_json_intro.asp>

Once done, do the following tasks:

### JSON Object

Write a JSON object with properties of every JSON type.
We will refer to this later as "JSON 1"

A sample answer:

<details>

  ```json
  {
    "name":"John",
    "age":30,
    "isMarried":true,
    "previousLocations":["New York","Bangkok"],
    "partner":{
        "name":"Clara",
        "age":32,
        "isMarried":true,
        "previousLocations":["London","Bangkok"],
    }
    "car":null
  }
  ```
You should have a string, integer, boolean, null, object and array.
An object can contain another object or array, thus those are also expected.
</details>

### JSON Array

Write a JSON array with properties of every JSON type. 
We will refer to this later as "JSON 2".

A sample answer:

<details>

  ```json
  ["John",32,true,{"isMarried":true},[1,2],null]
  ```

You should have a string, integer, boolean, null, object and array.
An array can contain another object or array, thus those are also expected.
</details>

## JSON Schema

JSON Schema is how data sent by and to IoT devices is modeled, described and validated.
It is also a very important concept to understand. Without it, you cannot describe how a temperature value is sent by the sensor so that you can parse it in your application.

Look at your answers from the question above.
If you wanted someone else to write exactly what you wrote, how would you explain it?

Have a look at <https://json-schema.org/> to have an initial idea and watch [JSON Schema in 60 seconds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JpzH8Eq663o)

After this, finish this non-interactive tutorial: [JSON-schema](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/). You will learn the individual concepts one by one.
During this tutorial, keep writing small JSON Schemas and validating them with an online JSON Schema validator. [An example](https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/)

### Schema for JSON 1

Write a JSON Schema for the JSON 1. This means that your JSON 1 should pass this schema but e.g. a JSON with a property that should be boolean but isn't should not pass.


### Schema for JSON 2

Write a JSON Schema for the JSON 2. This means that your JSON 2 should pass this schema but e.g. a JSON with a property that should be boolean but isn't should not pass.

### Array Validation

Now we will go into some detail concepts.
The exercises here are not necessarily useful in real life but they will make you read some important details of the tutorial above.
Write a JSON Schema that gives the following validation results:
   
- `[1,2,3,4]`  OK
- `[3,2,4,1]` OK
- `[1,2,3,4,3]` Not OK
- `[1,2,3,5]` Not OK
- `[1,1,1,1]` Not OK
    
<details>

```json
{
  "type": "array",
  "minItems": 4,
  "maxItems": 4,
  "uniqueItems": true,
  "maximum":4,
  "minimum":1
}
  ```

Some variation is possible.
</details>

### Object Validation

Write a JSON Schema that gives the following validation results. 
This is not an easy question and needs a good understanding of objects:

- `{ "led": 32 , "color": {"red":20, "blue":40, "green":20 }}`  OK

- `{ "led": 32 , "color": {"red":20, "blue":40, "green":20 },"tyuiejtysahb": any type except array}` Not OK

- `{ "led": 32 ,"color": {"red":20, "blue":40, "green":20 },"safdgsdtgjs": []}` OK

- `{ "led": 32 , "color": {"red":20, "blue":40, "green":20 },"aosfdihsdsa":[]}` OK

- `{ "led": 32 , "color": {"red":20, "blue":40, "green":20 },"gahfodasfh":[]}` OK

<details>

You should simply use `"additionalProperties":{"type":"array"}`
This means that if there are unspecified properties, they should be of type array.
</details>
